How do Annual Members and Casual Riders use Cyclistic bikes Differently?

Both Members and Casual Users prefer the classic bikes to the electric bikes that are offered.

Casual riders length of ride is almost double the length of ride for members (23 minutes vs 12 minutes).

Members use the ride service during the weekdays while Casual riders use the service more on the weekends.

Members are more likely to begin their ride during times of day associated with the start and end of work days, 8 AM and 5 PM.  Casual riders are more likely to 
begin their rides from 3 PM to 6PM.

Members and Casual riders use the ride service during the warmer months, the months of December, January, and February is the slowest period for the company.

Members begin their rides in parts of the Chicago that are more associated for work use that align with the time of day they begin their rides (8AM and 5PM). 
Casual users begin many of their rides close to the shoreline of Lake Michigan which suggests a much more recreational use of the ride service.


Please see the link below for my visualization using Looker Studio.

https://lookerstudio.google.com/s/nPtBD7e8lSw


3 Recommendations

Based on the fact that casual useres tend to use the service more on the weekends, Cyclistic can offer promotions and discounts
on weekdays to encourage more usage. Also, since the winter months see less usage, the company can increase their marketing efforts
during these months to increase demand for their product.

Since Members tend to use the serivce during the weekdays and the start/end of workdays, the company should consier adjusting the
bike inventory and staffing schedules to align with these patterns. This can help ensure there are enough bikes during peak hours and
locations to meet the demand.

Cyclistic can invest in technology to improve the user experience. This might include apps to make it easier to find and reserve
bikes, as well as real time data analysis to predict demand and optimize bike availability.


